The next little fix we're going to add in is to make sure that if a user searches for something and
then decides they don't want to select a video and clicks somewhere else we want to close the menu.
So essentially we need to really detect when a user clicks anywhere on the screen.
That is not inside of that menu.
Now believe or not adding in some code for this is not the easiest thing in the world.
And it's actually kind of deceptively challenging.
There is a little trick to it however and this trick is going to seem a little bit weird but it's probably
the best and easiest way to handle this to understand the trick.
I mean first write out a little demonstration in my console so inside my console with my dev tools open
I'm going to right click on the label right there.
Search for a movie and I'm going to click inspect on it.
That's going to open up my elements panel and select the B element Whenever I click an element in this
elements panel.
You'll see it right after the eight small snippet I get.
Equals equals dollar sign 0.
And if you hover over it you can type in dollar sign 0 in the console to refer to that element.
So if I open up my console at the same time which by the way you can do by hitting escape we can write
in at Dollar Sign 0 and that will print out the reference to that element just you know.
Dollar sign 0 is a valid javascript identifier that is not some like magic operator or something.
It is a normal completely valid.
Totally legal javascript variable name OK.
So now that I've got a selector to that element I want to show you the little trick I'm going to get
reference to the entire document.
I'm going to call document dot contains and then pass in dollar sign 0.
So what this checks is to see if the element that I currently have selected in this case that labeled
right there is contained within the document element.
If it is contained because remember we view the DOM as a sort of tree and we're going to get back true
in this case the element inside the document definitely is contained.
But if we try to check the reverse relationship so dollar sign 0 dot contains document we're going to
get back false.
Whoops typo.
We're going to get back false.
Like so.
So that means that the label does not contain the document.
So I just want you to keep that in your head for just a moment.
Keep in your head.
We're gonna go back over and write a little bit of code to handle closing that input menu or the drop
down menu okay.
So back over here are going to say document dot add event listener.
So this is kind of the crazy part.
We are adding a global event listener to our entire document and we're going to watch for any time that
anyone clicks on any element whatsoever.
Now remember how events work in JavaScript events bubble which means that if some element contained
inside the documents like let's say the container right here or even the text inside of it.
If someone clicks on that that's going to trigger a click event on that element.
If it doesn't get handled right there then the event is going to essentially bubble up until it gets
to the top level of our entire e-mail document.
In this case the document so this event right here we can look at console dot log event dot target and
as we start to click around we're going to see that this is going to print out a variety of different
elements essentially whatever element we click on I'm going to go back over again.
I'm going to refresh it now if I start to click around like on the label.
I'll see the label text I can click on the H1 the icon right there the header anywhere else the input
whatever else and whenever I click on it I see the console log up here.
OK.
So now here's the real final conclusion of all this.
So we know that event target is going to tell us what gets clicked.
We know that we also have that contains element as well or something that contains method.
So the whole big trick here the whole kind of conclusion to all this is that we can take a look at our
roots element.
Remember the root element encapsulates everything having to do with our autocomplete.
So we're going to check to see if the element that was clicked on is contained inside of root.
If it is contained inside that means that the user clicked on the label the input or the dropdown and
in any of those scenarios we want to keep the dropdown open.
But if the click is not contained inside of the roots then the user clicks somewhere else in the document.
And so we should close the dropdown.
That's the whole conclusion.
I apologize in coming to it in a roundabout way but that is the trick.
That's how we're going to do this.
So inside of our event listener down here we're going to say if not route dot contains event dot target.
That's saying if the route element for our little autocomplete doesn't contain the element that was
just clicked on then we need to close the dropdown and remember to open or closed the dropdown we can
get a reference back to the dropdown element right here which is essentially that thing right there
and we can add or remove the class is Dash active.
We just added in some code a little bit ago to add in the class is active which opens it up so to close
it.
We're going to remove that class and that will close the dropdown get so down here.
I'll do dropdown class list dot remove is Dash active like so and I'll save put back over refresh I'll
go for dark knight.
Now I'm going to click anywhere else in the dropdown closes if I do another search for let's say Avengers.
I can click on anything inside here so I can click click click click click on the input click on the
label I click on anything inside of the entire autocomplete widget and this thing stays open as we would
hope all right.
That definitely looks like it's working correctly.
So just one that's little fix I want to take care of in the next video so quick pause and I'll see you
in just a minute.